`FileInput` web documentation (HDS-2279) (#1541)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/form/file-input/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

The File Input component uses the native HTML input with `type="file"` under the hood but adds visual styling to match other HDS components.

## Truncation

Truncation is built into the native component and uses the width of the container to determine when the text gets truncated. It is not based on a character limit. 

!!! Info

Due to limitations in Figma, truncation will occur at the end of the text, while in the browser, truncation occurs in the middle. 

![visual difference in truncation between figma and browser](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-truncation.png)
!!!

## Multiple files

Multiple files can be added at once when the `multiple` attribute is enabled in code. When more than one file is selected, the text will change to show the number of files you’ve selected, e.g., “2 files”. *The exact language used may differ between browsers.*

!!! Info

*A note about browser inconsistency*

Because the File Input is based on the native HTML input, the content and visual appearance may vary slightly across browsers.

![Examples of file input states rendered in different web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)

> !!!

Author: Including this here below "##Multiple files" still makes it seem to me like it's supposed to be related except it's not. Could we maybe move it more towards the top under this text: "The File Input component uses the native HTML input with type="file" under the hood but adds visual styling to match other HDS components."?

@heatherlarsen @jorytindall what do you think?

Reviewer: It seems like the info block is doing a lot of heavy lifting here. Agreed, moving it under the intro sentence and potentially adding a headline for "Browser inconsistency" or similar (and not wrapping it in the info block.

Author: Adding a headline and removing the Info block makes sense to me too.

Author: @andgen404 @jorytindall 

I applied Andrew's change to move the content and then added a headline, what do you think?

<img width="866" alt="image" src="https://github.com/hashicorp/design-system/assets/108769823/4e2bf806-8320-470f-b895-0307b7340c45">

Reviewer 2: Thank you @KristinLBradley I think this change looks good to me 🙂

> The File Input component uses the native HTML input with `type="file"` under the hood but adds visual styling to match other HDS components.
> 
> 
> ## Truncation
> 
> Truncation is built into the native component and uses the width of the container to determine when the text gets truncated. It is not based on a character limit. 
> 
> !!! Info
> 
> Due to limitations in Figma, truncation will occur at the end of the text, while in the browser, truncation occurs in the middle. 
> 
> ![visual difference in truncation between figma and browser](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-truncation.png)
> !!!
> 
> ## Multiple files
> 
> Multiple files can be added at once when the `multiple` attribute is enabled in code. When more than one file is selected, the text will change to show the number of files you’ve selected, e.g., “2 files”. *The exact language used may differ between browsers.*
> 
> !!! Info
> 
> *A note about browser inconsistency*
> 
> Because the File Input is based on the native HTML input, the content and visual appearance may vary slightly across browsers.
> 
> ![Examples of file input states rendered in different web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)
> !!!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The File Input component uses the native HTML input with `type="file"` under the hood but adds visual styling to match other HDS components.

!!! Info

*A note about browser inconsistency*

Because the File Input is based on the native HTML input, the content and visual appearance may vary slightly across browsers.

![Examples of file input states rendered in different web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)
!!!

## Truncation

Truncation is built into the native component and uses the width of the container to determine when the text gets truncated. It is not based on a character limit. 

!!! Info

Due to limitations in Figma, truncation will occur at the end of the text, while in the browser, truncation occurs in the middle. 

![visual difference in truncation between figma and browser](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-truncation.png)
!!!

## Multiple files

Multiple files can be added at once when the `multiple` attribute is enabled in code. When more than one file is selected, the text will change to show the number of files you’ve selected, e.g., “2 files”. *The exact language used may differ between browsers.*

```

## Usage

### When to use

> - Use a file input to let users quickly select files from their computer.

Reviewer: Should this be capitalized? Is it referencing the component, or `type=file` (I know, fine line here)

Additionally, probably best to use "device" here. Nit-picky, but probably relevant for users on a tablet, etc. (forward thinking here)

```suggestion
- Use a File Input to let users quickly select files from their device.
```

Reviewer 3: @jorytindall should it be "the File Input" if we're referencing the component? or "a File Input component"?

Reviewer: The age old question lol. I'm not sure if one is more correct over the other, but "the File Input component" reads a better to me 🤔

Author: Probably "the File Input" component I think since it's talking about a specific HDS component

### Disabled State

> The File Input component allows users to upload documents and images. Disabling it can make users feel confused, frustrated, and unsure about why it’s not working.

Reviewer: [Suggestion] might recommend against "it's not working"  and instead reference the component and specific state.

```suggestion
The File Input component allows users to upload documents and images. Disabling it can make users feel confused, frustrated, and unsure about why the component is disabled.
```

Instead of disabling, consider these alternatives:

> - Include explanatory text or prompts: If you display a disabled file input, explain why it’s disabled and what users need to do to enable it. You can use a tooltip, or an instructional sentence.

Reviewer: Can you actually use a tooltip in this case (technically speaking)? Maybe @KristinLBradley has knowledge of this. Either way, I might recommend reordering the options to promote what we intend to be the best experience, which in this case I would think is maybe more like this:

- Helper text in the field component 
- A descriptive/instructional sentence
- Tooltip

From a UX perspective, the _appearance_ of a disabled button communicates that an element cannot be interacted with, therefore, a user may not think to hover over the element.

Reviewer 3: +1 @jorytindall 
Since you can't focus on a disabled element, and the element that is disabled is also hidden to users with assistive tech, a tooltip wouldn't work.

Author: You could include a `Tooltip` in the label or in the helper text.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Use progressive disclosure: Display or enable the file input only when users meet certain conditions (e.g., after completing the necessary information). This approach guides users step-by-step and presents relevant options based on their progress.

Reviewer: Nice! 🙌

### Truncation

Truncation works differently in Figma and the browser. In Figma, truncation occurs at the end of the text, while in the browser, it will truncate text in the middle.

![visual difference in truncation between figma and browser](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-truncation.png)

### Multiple Files

> You can enable users to upload multiple files at once by adding the `multiple` attribute which is passed to the native HTML file input the HDS component is based on. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you’ve selected, such as “2 files” in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this information).

Reviewer: > You can enable users

Should likely choose between "enable" and "allow", I've seen both in the guidelines section.

Author: I've started using "enable" more since it sounds more positive. Although I don't think it's necessarily a huge deal to use both/either according to what "sounds" better in different contexts (or just to introduce some variety possibly).

> You can enable users to upload multiple files at once by adding the `multiple` attribute which is passed to the native HTML file input the HDS component is based on. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you’ve selected, such as “2 files” in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this information).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable users to upload multiple files at once by adding the `multiple` attribute which is passed to the native HTML file input the HDS component is based on. When more than one file is selected, the status message will change to show the number of files selected, e.g., “2 files” in Chrome (other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this information).
```

> You can enable users to upload multiple files at once by adding the `multiple` attribute which is passed to the native HTML file input the HDS component is based on. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you’ve selected, such as “2 files” in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this information).

Reviewer 4: A visual example should be added to illustrate this point. I've left one in the website assets file. 

Suggesting a bit of alternative language to provide brevity and clarity.

```suggestion
Multiple files can be added at once when the `multiple` attribute is enabled in code. When more than one file is selected, the text will change to show the number of files you’ve selected, e.g., “2 files”. *The exact language used may differ between browsers.*
```

> ### Browser differences
> 
> The File Input component is based off of the native HTML file input element so the visual appearance can vary across different web browsers.
> 
> ![Examples of file input states rendered in different web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)

Reviewer 4: What about putting this in an info banner and moving it under the basic description since there are notes throughout the docs about browser differences? 

```suggestion
!!! Info

*A note about browser inconsistency*

Because the File Input is based on the native HTML input, the content and visual appearance may vary slightly across browsers.

![Examples of file input states rendered in different web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)
!!!
```

The File Input component uses the native HTML input with `type="file"` under the hood but adds visual styling to match other HDS components.

> ## Disabled field
> 
> Disabled inputs can result in confusion and frustration, leading users to question why it’s not working. Instead of disabling, consider these alternatives:
> 
> - Include explanatory text or prompts: If you display a disabled file input, explain why it’s disabled and what users need to do to enable it. 
> - Use progressive disclosure: Display or enable the file input only when users meet certain conditions (e.g., after completing the necessary information). This approach guides users step-by-step and presents relevant options based on their progress.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Usage

### When to use

- Use a file input to let users quickly select files from their computer.

> ### Types of File Inputs 

Reviewer 5: I am not sure what this title means. What does "types" refer to, here? 🤔

Reviewer 5: In that case, my suggestion below stands: let's move this whole section below, and call it "Browser differences" or something like this

> ### Types of File Inputs 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Browser differences
```

> The appearance of file input can vary across different web browsers.

Reviewer 5: I would move this part in a dedicated section in which we explain the visual difference between browsers

Author: @andgen404

> - Include explanatory text or prompts: If you display a disabled file input, explain why it’s disabled and what users need to do to enable it. You can use a tooltip, or an instructional sentence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Include explanatory text or prompts: If you display a disabled file input, explain why it’s disabled and what users need to do to enable it. 
```

- Include explanatory text or prompts: If you display a disabled file input, explain why it's disabled and what users need to do to enable it. You can use a tooltip, or an instructional sentence.

- Use progressive disclosure: Display or enable the file input only when users meet certain conditions (e.g., after completing the necessary information). This approach guides users step-by-step and presents relevant options based on their progress.

### Truncation

Truncation works differently in Figma and the browser. In Figma, truncation occurs at the end of the text, while in the browser, it will truncate text in the middle.

![visual difference in truncation between figma and browser](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-truncation.png)

### Multiple Files 

In the native HTML file input, you can input multiple files using the "multiple" attribute. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you've selected, such as "2 files" in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this).

### Browser differences

The appearance of file input can vary across different web browsers.

> File Input accepts [all native HTML types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file), but we offer built in styling for the following:

Author: @andgen404  It actually doesn't. The input `type` is set specifically to "file".

HTML: `<input type="file" />`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
File Input accepts [HTML: <input type="file" />](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file), but we offer built in styling for the following:
```

Reviewer 2: So would I write: File Input accepts `HTML: <input type="file" />`, and we offer built in styling for the following:

Author: No that's just what the actual code is under the hood. I can update this line for you if you like.

Reviewer 2: Ah, okay. Thank you

> ![Types of File Inputs in web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)

Author: @andgen404  I think we should change the alt text to something more like: "Examples of file input states rendered in different web browsers."

> ![Types of File Inputs in web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Examples of file input states rendered in different web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)
```

> In the native HTML file input, you can input multiple files using the "multiple" attribute. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you've selected, such as "2 files" in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the native HTML file input, you can input multiple files using the `multiple` attribute. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you've selected, such as "2 files" in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this).
```

Author: @andgen404 Could you please apply this one when you are ready?

> ### Types of File Inputs 
> 
> The appearance of file input can vary across different web browsers.
> 
> File Input accepts [all native HTML types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file), but we offer built in styling for the following:
> 
> ![Types of File Inputs in web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)
> 
> ### Disabled State 
> 
> The File Input component lets users add documents and images. Disabling it can make users feel confused, frustrated, and unsure about why it's not working.
> 
> Instead of disabling, consider these alternatives:
> 
> - Include explanatory text or prompts: If you display a disabled file input, explain why it's disabled and what users need to do to enable it. You can use a tooltip, or an instructional sentence.
> 
> - Use progressive disclosure: Display or enable the file input only when users meet certain conditions (e.g., after completing the necessary information). This approach guides users step-by-step and presents relevant options based on their progress.
> 
> ### Truncation
> 
> Truncation works differently in Figma and the browser. In Figma, truncation occurs at the end of the text, while in the browser, it will truncate text in the middle.
> 
> ![visual diffrence in truncation between figma and browser](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-truncation.png)
> 
> ### Multiple Files 
> 
> In the native HTML file input, you can input multiple files using the "multiple" attribute. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you've selected, such as "2 files" in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Disabled State 

The File Input component lets users add documents and images. Disabling it can make users feel confused, frustrated, and unsure about why it's not working.

Instead of disabling, consider these alternatives:

- Include explanatory text or prompts: If you display a disabled file input, explain why it's disabled and what users need to do to enable it. You can use a tooltip, or an instructional sentence.

- Use progressive disclosure: Display or enable the file input only when users meet certain conditions (e.g., after completing the necessary information). This approach guides users step-by-step and presents relevant options based on their progress.

### Truncation

Truncation works differently in Figma and the browser. In Figma, truncation occurs at the end of the text, while in the browser, it will truncate text in the middle.

![visual difference in truncation between figma and browser](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-truncation.png)

### Multiple Files 

In the native HTML file input, you can input multiple files using the "multiple" attribute. When you input more than one file, the status message will change to show the number of files you've selected, such as "2 files" in Chrome (Other browsers may have slight differences in how they display this).

### Browser differences

The appearance of file input can vary across different web browsers.

File Input accepts [all native HTML types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file), but we offer built in styling for the following:

![Types of File Inputs in web browsers](/assets/components/form/file-input/file-input-browsers.png)
```
